GOALS

* Continuum should work well with other development tools. In particular it should
  work well with make/nant/visual studio project files/mono-develop project
  files, svn, and web browsers.
* There should be no need to do any setup or to tell Continuum anything it can 
  figure out itself. For example, instead of creating a project Continuum should 
  rely on things like make files. Instead of asking the user where a source file 
  is it should search for it.
* The UI should follow the Apple UI guidelines and make use of features such as
  animation, composition, and advanced typography. The interface should be clean,
  uncluttered, and relatively sparing in the options it presents to the user.
* There should be very strong support for browsing both source code and assemblies.
  It should not be neccesary to compile in order to browse and all assemblies in 
  the current working directory or referenced from it should be browseable. Note
  that this also includes things like opening files in a summary view and panels
  to show information about the code under the mouse cursor or selection.
* The workflow for common activities should be streamlined as much as possible.
  For example, on foreground compiler errors the offending window should be
  automatically brought to the front, the error hilited, and an unobstrusive
  popup window should appear below the error with the error message. Other examples
  include support for refactoring, code snippets, and background compiles.
* Continuum should be very extensible. It should be easy to add basic support for
  new languages and possible to add new plugins or to replace existing ones. The
  application itself should be quite small: all of the real work should be done
  by plugins.
* Experiment with features like time machine for all files in a directory, wiki
  formatting, replay, code coverage and profiling hinting, test integration,
  scripting, database queries, intentional programming

ARCHITECTURE

The extensibility goal is the main driver for the Continuum architecture. Continuum
uses Gear (see <http://code.google.com/p/gear-sharp/>) to define the public
interfaces exposed by plugins. All communication with a plugin goes through these
interfaces so platform details are hidden, plugins can be replaced by any plugin
that implements the same interfaces, and plugins can even add new interfaces to
existing bosses.

It would be possible to do something similar using an ad hoc approach with managed
or native code, but this would be rather clumsy, implementation details would tend
to leak into the public types, and there's no clear specification of the plugin's
interface.

Mono.Addins is another possibility. However these merely support extension points:
they aren't really designed to support a truly extensible application. MonoDevelop
for example is a monolithic application with extension points for plugins to hook
into. Continuum is completely different: the application is very small and plugins
do all the real work.


