The language files are used to do syntax hilighting for text files and to control what qualifies as a word for operations like double-clicking. Language globs are patterns used to associate a file with a language. Typically they are the exact name of a file ('Makefile') or based on the file's extension ('*.cs').

New languages can be added to the user directory. Languages are defined using a simple line-based file format consisting of settings and elements. The settings configure various aspects of the language and the elements affect highlighting.

The settings are:
Language: is the name of the language. By convention this is lower case. This is the only required setting.

Globs: is a space separated list of file name globs associated with the language. This is not technically required, but almost all language files should have this setting.

IgnoreWhitespace: if this is true then leading and trailing whitespace is not highlighted. Defaults to false.

LineComment: is used with the toggle comments command.

Shebangs: space separated list of shebangs associated with the language, eg sh ksh csh bash. This allows files written in the language to be highlighted even if they don't have a matching glob.

SpacesNotTabs: if true spaces are inserted instead of tabs. If present this will override the directory editor preference.

TabStops: space separated list of integral tab stops. This overrides the normal tab stops set in the preferences panel and is useful for languages that have fixed columns (like disassembled code).

Word: a regex that indicates what a word (aka identifier) means in the language. Generally this only needs to be used if the language which allow Unicode or unusual characters (like '-' or ':') in identifiers. Note that regular expressions like \w [\w-]* should be written as [\w-]+ because double clicking in the middle of a word will keep extending the selection one character at a time until the regex fails to match.

Elements may have arbitrary names and use .NET regular expressions. If the element matches source code then that source code is styled using the font attributes from the associated element in Styles.rtf. All regexen use the following options: Multiline | IgnorePatternWhitespace (among other things his means that . does not match new line characters).

Commonly used regex patterns include:
	(?: e)		non-capturing group, this should be used instead of ()
	(?<= e)	zero-width positive lookbehind assertion
	(?<! e)	zero-width negative lookbehind assertion
	(?= e)		zero-width positive lookahead assertion
	(?! e)		zero-width negative lookahead assertion

Changes to the lang files are dynamic: the prefs panel and text documents will both update when a lang file is saved. 
